# Drone Journal 1 - 25/03/2026

##### 'Ello folks! 
The beginning of a new project, truly a momentous occasion \:)
I've recently been getting a wee bit into fpv drone flying (just in sims as of yet), but I'm deeply enjoying and am looking to do a little irl piloting. I've been wanting to make some ROV for a while now, but have been tossing up between a plane, boat, drone, or underwater rov. Given the relative accessibility of drones (with a bunch of nice software written, and a loott of hobbyist components available), and also my recent interest in them coinciding with this program, I've decided to gun it and just give it my best shot. 

---

So, getting straight into it; What does a drone actually need?
| What                  | Why                                                              | Buy? |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| **Frame**             | Holds the other components in place (duh);                       |  O   |
| **Motors**            | Yeah i think you know what these do lol;                         |  X   |
| **Props**             | Attach to the motors, probs a bit useful;                        |  X   |
| **ESC's**             | Motor drivers: Required for 3 phase and also control motor speed;|  ?   |
| **Flight Controller** | The big brain, majority of this project;                         |  O   |
| **Battery/ies**       | Power, might not make these myself;                              |  X   |
| **Sensors**           | Baro, Gyro, Compass, Accelerometer, think thats most of 'em;    |  O   |
| **GPS Module**        | Not strictly required, good for navigation if wanting auto mode; |  -   |
| **Camera**            | It's a camera, what more could you want :shrug:                  |  X   |
| **VTX Module**        | Transmits video from the camera back to the controller / goggles;|  X   |
| **Tx / Rx**           | Receiving antennae and transmitting, for control and video;      |  X   |

<sub><sub><sub><sub>ai slop articles are absolutely despicable i hate all of you</sub></sub></sub></sub>

---

##### Alrighty, I'm pretty sure thats a reasonably comprehensive list (excl. a controller + goggles).
Most of this I'll look to buy, but a few things I reckon I can take a crack at myself.

I'll most definitely design a frame, as this is pretty much the main thing that determines a drone's performance and durability, and so just buying one would kinda defeat the whole point of the project.
Alongside this, I will also make my own custom flight controller, for similar reasons. Sensors will likely just be mounted on the flight controller, so don't need to buy those seperately.

I think that I potentially could design my own ESC's, but I am definitely not as confident in my skills in this area, as it deals with much more of the physics side of electronics than the computer side, and I am not super familiar with how to work in that area. I'll do a bit of preliminary research but overall I think it's unlikely to happen. ESC's are also not a massively important or unique part of a drone, pretty much all of them are the same so I won't miss out on any creativity and will likely save costs as well.

I also don't feel confident making a VTX, as not only is it a highly complex field (radio transmission), theres also not nearly as much information on how to design one and the best practices around it.

---

## Flight Controller

I've been having a look at the flight controller guided project for blueprint, and it has some pure gold! So here, I'm pretty much just going to copy over some of the planning stage from that to help get my thoughts straight.

#### Feature Definition:
What does my flight controller need to do? What capabilities and what connections?
My drone will be pretty basic, no fancy features and just good ol' classic fpv control, so I might see about any prebuilt solutions for code or something else to scaffold off of, and perhaps have my own seperate (crappy) firmware just for fun. The only thing slightly out of the ordinary I'd like to do is collect telemetry as well as transmit it, so in the case of connection loss or other extenuating circumstances I can analyse the data post flight.

- Powerable by battery
- Control four ESC's
- Receive input from radio receiver
- Get rotation, speed, and altitude data
- Persistently store data even on power off
- Water-proofable
- Programmable via usb
- Low-latency analog video capable
- Tough (i will crash a loottt)

I've very easily narrowed down my choice of software to Betaflight (i almost certainly will want a 'good' firmware, but maybe also my crappy one): It's got a very wide user base, has good support for a variety of hardware and has all the features I could possibly need. 
This does narrow down my choices of hardware for sensors and the like.

OK SCATTERBRAIN TIME BECAUSE I'M RESEARCHING (sorry journal readers this is how it goes)
- VTX is often integrated into flight controllers
- Analogue over digital -> Way better support
- ExpressLRS - something about channel swapping, need to read more to understand
- OpenVTX - thingy for managed channels / bands, defo use (if not using the expresslrs thing)
- use an esc which supports dshot (for rotor telemetry etc)

```
You have most likely seen something like "F4", "F7", or maybe further specified as "F411", "F405", and "F722". These are designations for the different MCU lines. They vary in flash size, RAM, and clock speed. Generally, the higher the number, the more powerful the MCU is.

In order of power, from least to most:

    STM32F411 - Very common in budget and/or AIO FCs due to its low cost and small size. But it's not that powerful compared to most other MCUs
    STM32G473 - A newer option from STM, it's a bit more powerful than the F411, but not as developed and established
    STM32F405 - Pretty much the most common option, it's a good balance of power and cost, being in use for a long time
    AT32F435 - ArteryTek's new alternative to the F405, directly pin-compatible, but with a bit more power
    STM32F722 - Very popular high-end option, but it has a limited flash size. This is not much of a problem nowadays with the Cloud Build system which allows a lot of space saving
    STM32F745 - Somewhat more powerful than the F722, but with more available flash space make it a good option for high-end builds without going overboard
    STM32H743 - The most powerful (and expensive) option. It's not really needed for most builds, but it's a good option if you want to go all out
```
- ok u actually need camera running through fc for osd, so thats defo happening
- acro and 3d only need gyro, accel is for other modes, but probs have anyway just for telemetry
- Baro is only used for gps landing assist in betaflight atm, maybe more in future, but probs not needed (would be nice just for piloting though, although then i think i need gps in order to get land height (baro is from sea level))
- could have a compass if wanted, only use i could see is for planning flights (in terms of flight zones and aviation rules)
- GPS post crash could be handy \:)
- RM transmitter, cheapest would probs be ~100 bucks - ouch \:(
- Will need a vtx chip probs
- Want kinda little one, 2-3"
- would like bi-directional esc's (Not strict requirement)

#### LINKS
https://www.betaflight.com/docs/development/manufacturer/manufacturer-design-guidelines
https://www.betaflight.com/docs/wiki/getting-started/hardware
https://www.betaflight.com/
https://flying-rabbit-fpv.com/2020/10/06/designing-my-own-flight-controller/
https://blueprint.hackclub.com/starter-projects/flightcontroller
https://www.betaflight.com/docs/development/Flight-Controller-Design
https://github.com/anlgncr/custom-betaflight-board/tree/main
