# Drone Journal 3 - 27/03/2026 <-> 28/03/2026

Alrighty; Much more research has been done and I have nothing but good news!

First of all, I've received clarification on my questions on slack, and it seems I am allowed to buy supporting hardware (providing I optimise for cost) and I also should be good with designing stuff.

Secondly, I've found some very very nice resources on how to build diy ESC's and VTX's, which should hopefully save a loottt of money, being a single aio board instead of a bunch of seperate components.

So yeah! I suppose we should just get into it.

##### VTX / VRX
VTX will be done using the TX5823 chip, which is a nice little IC which handles all the tricky things for me. It transmits at ~200mw on the 5.8Ghz band, which is perfectly usable for me. Most VTX's are around 500-1000mw, but 200mw should be fine for my use case. As low as 50mw can give around 50-100m range, and so mine should be around double the range (from the inverse square law).

For receiving, I'll be using the RX5808 chip, which is very popular among diy receivers. There's also some open source hardware and software available, which will be greatly beneficial when designing my own version.

##### ESC's

Again this is still sitting at a maybe for me. I've found a few resources online on how to design one, but it'd probably not support dshot (needed for motor telemetry) and I'd be kinda worried working with such high power devices (eg things would probably blow up).

I'm going to leave this as a maybe for now, and get started on what is going to be on my flight controller.

##### Batteries
In order to spec a battery protector, I need to know what type of batteries I'll be using. 

## Flight Controller Speccing

- MCU : STM32F405
- IMU : ICM42688
- OSD : MAX7456
- VTX : TX5823
- ESC : Generic 4 in 1 DShot compatible
- Battery Management chip : blahblahblah

Ok enough research yap I'm itching to get started. Making my own esc because I saw a schematic online and it looked easy as hell so yknow, yolo!

Straight into kicad I go \:)

Alrighty, I'm pretty much just copying the datasheet and another example project right now, and for future reference I'm going to give a bit of an explanation of my understanding of how shit works.

First of all, for one esc, we need to switch to have three 'modes' for each coil(?) of the motor. Basically it needs to switch between high, low, and floating. High pulls the stator towards, low pushes away (i don't really know but ya get the idea). when floating, the coil acts as a generator, and you can measure the voltage (back emf) to get the speed of the motor.

The mosfets are too big to be switched by a mcu directly, and theres some other shenigans wherein the set of mosfets to switch a coil to high require higher voltage than the source which means that we'll use a motor **gate** driver ic. (gate being the transistor gate, don't get confused future me lol). 

There are logic inputs for low, logic inputs for high, and then their respective outputs, for each phase. Alongside this, there are VB pins and VS pins, which are for the bootstrapping (eg boosting the voltage at the gate of the mosfet). These need a capacitor which will be charged when the driver is low, and then discharged when logic goes high in order to properly drive the mosfet. To see how to pick the value look at the first 5-6 pages [here](https://www.ti.com/lit/an/slua887a/slua887a.pdf?ts=1774680750455).

For others developing an ESC, heres some amazing links:
- https://wiki.am32.ca/development/Hardware-Design.html
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TwAmmPxOpTM
- https://www.ti.com/lit/an/slua887a/slua887a.pdf

For the esc mcu's, I've decided to go with the AT32F421, pretty much just because it's the cheapest option.

Alrighty, I've done quite a good amount of work for tonight, most of the esc is done, I just need to work out what telemetry / monitoring I want on it and then wire up four of them into one board. It's pretty much a case of whether I want voltage / current sensing on the ESC or on the FC, and I'm not really sure whats typical / best practices. Anyways, im off to bed now, as its a bit past midnight and I need to get up early tomorrow \:)

Feeling much more confident about this project overall now, might not even take too long to finish up \:O
