# Drone Journal 7 - 02/04/2026 Part 2!

Ello ello ello!
It's been a few hours since the last journal and I've been having a think about this project. I'd really like to set a specific scope for this, and then base my decisions off of that. 

My main problem before was that I had some wishy-washy idea of a 3" drone, but then went and specced my ESC to 165A (like 8-10" drone territory lol), and this was causing a lot of headaches.

I'd really like not to go in this weird in between territory of 3", where its not quite a 5" and not quite a whoop. It makes component sourcing harder and also just design in general: Theres not a lot of 3" drones out there. 

5" Drones are very standard, and theres a ridiculous amount of selection, and some pretty standardized mounting patterns etc... Whoops/Tinywhoops are often a bit less standardized, and have much less of an open source / diy build community than 5", but there is still some stuff available.

The other thing to consider is that whoops require much lower power, typically 10-20A compared to ~80A for a 5" drone. This would simplify design significantly, and certainly make the drone cheaper.

---

## The big decision

Considering the pros and cons, I have decided to go with...
`**drumroll please........**`
A **whoop.**

Clap clap clap, blah blah blah
I chose this because of money, and ease of design, but also because I've been having a loottt of fun in the simulator flying smaller drones, less power but indoor spaces are fun and you can still get quite snappy and responsive movement with them.

---

## Better design specifications

I'm going to organise my design specs into categorys this time, and go into a bit more detail on the hardware requirements entailed by my intended outcome.

### Video
- Analog video transmission
- `>50m` range
- Easy to use receiver (screen w/ desktop compatibility so I can connect to my Oculus later)

###### Hardware
- `25mW` gives `300-800m` range. Go with `100mW` just to be safe.
- Chip that meets spec is TX5823: `<=200mW`
- Receiver will output av signal, need a capture card if I want to parse into computer. No oss solutions I found in 5 mins googling, look into more.

### Audio
Not required, but if I've got space and money could be fun. If it were to happen, these would be the requirements:
- Reasonably listenable audio (not ridiculous crackle / breakup)
- Similar range to VTX
###### Hardware
- Could literally just run audio into the same transmitter chip, should probably work but would need to research more. Just use a different channel which could be annoying if other people flying, defo have a way to disable.

### Control
- Receive ELRS
- Range higher than VTX
###### Hardware
- Use external receiver: XR2 Nano or XR1 2.4Ghz single band.
- Transmitter is what really matters, also buying:
    - T8L is `20-100mW`
    - Pocket is `250mW` I think? 
- Both should be fine

### Battery
- `>5 min` flight time
- Has some power, enough for manoeuvrability
###### Hardware
- Random person on reddit said `4s 450mAh` gave 10min which would weigh like `50g`
- `2s` should be ok for me be good, `>300mAh` should be adequate
- This means needs to handle max of `8.4V` (+margin)

### ESCs
- Won't explode
- Feel responsive
###### Hardware
- What I'm getting from websites is `~12A` should be a good goal to aim for (this is per channel, so `48A total`). This is continous, peak should be `15A / 60A Total`
- Only need to handle `8.4V` (see battery)

### FC
- Integrated VTX (see video)
- Gyro
- Run betaflight \:)
- USB programmable
###### Hardware
- MCU: STM32F405
- IMU: ICM42688
- OSD: MAX7456

### Motors
- same as everything else, responsive, and compatible with esc specs
###### Hardware 
- `1103` / `1102` motors (`10000-11500kv`)
- Tri props, not too high pitch as this will drive up current

### Frame
- Light
- Very durable - I want to crash this thing lol
###### Hardware
- If I decide on carbon fiber, I'll buy a frame, if not, i'll either buy a plastic one or get some tpu and design and build one myself.
- `<80g` frame

---

And I think thats about all \:)
Only other considerations I have are with pcb design and stuff, just keeping in mind proper grounding and isolation of rf stuff.

My next steps are going to be going through the current ESC design and seeing what stuff is overkill, probably respeccing mosfets and gate drivers, and then redesigning with the new specifications in mind.

I guess I should probably stop talking and start doing yknow...

---

### MOSFET Selection

Given an example motor: [Betafpv 1103 11000kv](https://betafpv.com/products/1103-brushless-motors)

| Voltage | Weight |
|---|---|
| 3.7-7.4V | 3.3g |

From [ti mosfet guide](https://www.ti.com/lit/ta/sszt819/sszt819.pdf?ts=1775115429977):
> The 10A-30A space that small battery-powered tools and home appliances occupy is the sweet spot for 5mm-by-6mm QFNs.

Given max `7.4V`, I'm going to aim for `~ >24V` continous V<sub>ds</sub>, which leaves a pretty comfortable amount of headroom for mystery electricity stuff.

Given I need peak currents of `~15A`, I'm going to go out on a limb and say that `20A - 30A` will be good for I<sub>d</sub>.

R<sub>ds</sub> basically determines how hot they'll get, and we can find peak heat losses via the equation:
> P = I<sub>d</sub><sup>2</sup> x R<sub>ds</sub>

The mosfets i'm currently using have an R<sub>ds</sub> of `2.9mΩ@10V` and `4.2mΩ@4.5V`. My drone will be running at `5-7V`, so I'll just take the average of these two numbers, which is `5mΩ@7.25V`. 
Plugging this into the earlier equation gives us
> P = 12<sup>2</sup> x 5*10<sup>-3</sup>
> P = 144 x 0.005
> P = 0.72W

`0.72W` of heat is quite a bit to be honest \:O That's enough to heat 1cm<sup>3</sup> of water by `0.171428571429 °C`
In all seriousness, I have absolutely no clue how much this is, or how much it will effect the mosfets or anything. There definitely will be some air cooling (drones fly) but I'm genuinely unsure as to how big of an issue it is.

###### *A few moments later...*

Yeah I still have no clue and I can't be bothered researching this. I'll just say it'll be fine, I can always slap a fan on if I find out later that its really bad.

For the sake of maths, I'm going to assume that 1w is fine for heat losses (mostly bc it came out with numbers that made some sense)

Such, we can solve for R<sub>ds</sub>:
> R<sub>ds</sub> = P / I<sub>d</sub><sup>2</sup>
> R<sub>ds</sub> = 1 / 144
> R<sub>ds</sub> = ~7mΩ

Thus, I'll try to aim for a bit less than this, probably `<=5mΩ` at whatever my gate driver IC runs at (currently `8V`).

For the gate driver, I reckon I'll just stick with the current one. It's potentially a bit overkill, but it's cheap, easy to use, and I've already got the schematic sorted for it.

That just leaves the mosfet selection! I'm just going to browse through jlcpcb parts for a bit, and see if anything looks particularly good.

---

You know what I'm finding; All of these mosfets in a good range already have the same packages as the mosfets I was already using, and the ones I was already using were just better specced as well, and available from jlcpcb. I might just stick with those \:(

--- 

Alright, so where am I actually going to save space? Well given that I'm aiming for `48A` instead of `165A`, I can use some lower rated components, and now that I'm targeting 2s instead of 4s-6s batteries, I can lower the voltage rating on everything as well, which should significantly help.

I can also shrink the shunt resistor a bit, and decrease the size of the capacitor banks, which were quite massive. Even just reducing the resistors down from 0805 to 0603 or 0402 would be quite life changing.

That might have to be a job for tomorrow though, because I've already spent a bunch of time today, I'm tired, and it was the last day of school... which means that tomorrow I can do a ten hour lock in session \:)

Night folks!