# Drone Journal 10 - 05/04/2026

I've started routing the board out, but it is incredibly difficult. I'm going to keep trying for another few minutes, but I think I might need to change something.

---

Yeah I'm definitely changing something, this layout is practically impossible to work with \:(

I've got a couple of ideas to save a bit of space, so I'll try those. First idea is to use resistor arrays where possible (probably just the bemf dividers). Second is to just have less decoupling. I think I could probably just have one shared group of bulk decoupling, and then keep the local decoupling (100nF) as well.

---

I've gone ahead and done the afforementioned changes, and I think it's probably not a bad idea to redo the board layout. I've learnt a bit since the last time so I reckon it'll help in the long run.

---

Ok well I got a bit into the layout, but I was again going to need to try a different approach. Unfortunately, KiCad crashed (again) and I yet again lost my progress. I'm getting a bit fed up with it, and I know it's bc I'm on wayland, so I'm going to just use windows for now \:(

---

Hello from windows!

I've been looking at some other dual channel mosfets (basically two mosfets in one package) and I've found two possible contenders: 

| Chip             | Id     | Vds | Rds (on) @10V | Package Size       |
|------------------|--------|-----|---------------|--------------------|
| VISHAY SI4204DY  | 18-20A | 20V | 4.6mOhm       | SO-8 (4x5mm)       |
| VISHAY SQJB46ELP | 30A    | 40V | 8mOhm         | SO-8L Dual (5x5mm) |

They should both be adequate but I think I'll go with the SQJB46ELP; It's got more headroom for virtually the same package size, and cooling is better given its a POWERPAK package. The gate capacitance is also around the same, so it's even more an easy choice to make.

---

Getting a bit into the new layout and it's clear this is also not going to work. However... I have just read that JLCPCB offers free via in pad for 6 layer boards under 50x50mm, which is still just $2...

This is an absolute game changer for this project, and should make it near effortless to route the board. I think I will go this route, and use the SQJB46ELP mosfets as they're better suited anyway.

Before I do this though, I will double check in the slack.