# Drone Journal 2 - 26/03/2026

Onto speccing some stuff!
##### The first major choice is the MCU. 
I'm not going to be doing anything special, so I've elected to go with the common choice of a STM32F405. Should be able to handle all my needs \:)

##### Next, a gyro / IMU.
<s>Again, going for the easiest choice, I'll take an MPU6000. They're tried and tested and cheaply available, even if they are a bit old.</s>
Nevermind I'm using the ICM42688, because it's available on jlcpcb parts lol

##### OSD 
To overlay the osd, a MAX7456 is typically used, and I see no reason to deviate from this.

##### Barometer
If I were to have a barometer, I'd use the BMP280, again just going with super common choices. However, because they cost 6 bucks each, I think I'll pass on them for now, especially given that its not necessary for anything other than osd stuff.

##### GPS
Honestly, GPS sounds like a total headache, and I'm not sure how relevant it'll be to this project, so I've decided to just skip it.

##### VTX
<s>
I'm wanting something cheap for the vtx, which limits my options a lot (while not going into crappy clones), but I think I've somewhat narrowed it down to the SpeedyBee TX800, which is available for ~35 USD, which is much better than other options. For some reason its more on aliexpress than the official site, so I'll need to do some research over where to get it.

I could also use the SpeedyBee TX500, which is a smaller, lower power transmitter designed more for micro drones, which is somewhat in the size class I'm looking to build. It is also cheaper so this may be a decent option.</s>

TBS Unify Pro32 Nano 5G8 is cheaper and available in NZ

For receiving the signal, a decent option I reckon would be a [RC832](https://www.getfpv.com/5-8ghz-48ch-fpv-av-receiver-rc832.html) receiver coupled with an analog video to usb adaptor, to bring it into my laptop and potentially output to my vr headset I already have, instead of buying fpv goggles (\$\$\$)
Even still, it's gonna be another 25 USD \:(

##### Camera
<s>I'll probably just go for generic aliexpress no brand camera, but ideally I'm looking for one with ~115° FOV, </s>
The caddx cameras are looking like a decent option, and if I were to go with them I don't need to worry about osd on board (although I probably would still want it, for compatibility with other cameras and controllability via betaflight). I'll keep looking but I can't really find any cheap ones on aliexpress.

*Note: kiwiquads is local and has cheap cameras and cheap shipping (30 NZ + 5 NZ shipping)*

##### Batteries

These are all quite generic, so any specific one will do later, but I'm going to put a bit of thought into my desired battery and flight time now.

I'd ideally want ~2-3 minutes of flight time, and so if I can get my drone weight (incl. batteries) to around 300g, then I'll want around 450mAh at 7.6v nominal, for which there are a bunch of good options.

##### Tx / Rx
For a transmitter / controller, I've decided to go with a Radiomaster Pocket / Crush, which is pretty much the cheapest you can get lol. For receiving, I've elected to go with a RP1 v2 also from Radiomaster. It's cheap and it'll work, thats about it \:)

Moneys:
RM Pocket: ~60 USD
RP1 v2: ~20 USD
Caddx Ant: ~20 USD
TBS Unify Pro32 Nano 5G8: ~35 USD
VRX: ~20 USD
FC: ~20 USD probs
Frame: ~5 USD probs

Total: ~180 USD
Add 60 USD because shipping + extra bits I haven't thought of etc...
~240 USD

AAAAHHHHHH THIS IS SO EXPENSIVE \:(

I might have to do some rejiggering and see about absolute cheapest thingies.

god theres not a lot you can do \:(

Ok, well, to wrap up what I've done today, it's basically been a lot more research into specific parts I can use, and how to optimise cost (yikes). Overall, I will say its not looking promising. I've also asked on slack to clarify whether I can buy a controller with the project money, which'll pretty much determine the fate of this project lol, wish me luck \:)